---
layout: post
title:  "35 Decentralization w/ Chris Hoover"
date:   2022-03-12 18:20:34
categories: 
duration: 1:40:41
length: 46568526
link: "https://s3.amazonaws.com/jayflaunts.jays.net/034.mp3"
---

Chris and Jay discuss a podcast episode: Your Undivided Attention:
<a href="https://pca.st/episode/c3e5c191-03fc-43c1-aa08-482fbc6fa0a5">The
Dark Side of Decentralization</a>.

<a href="{{site.storage_url}}/034.mp3" target="_blank">034.mp3</a> (1h 40m 46MB)

If you like this episode please [retweet us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/jayflaunts)
and consider [giving us $1 a month on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/jayflaunts)
so we can waste your money instead of our own. :)

Timestamps from this Jay Flaunts His Ignorance episode:
* 0m: Musical intro by [Skytrekg](http://twitch.tv/skytrekg)! Click to follow him on Twitch! An amazing
traditional (oil, guache, etc) artist, guitarist, and singer.

Jay's notes on the Your Undivided Attention episode:
* [Power to the People: How Open Technological Innovation is Arming Tomorrow's Terrorists](https://www.amazon.com/p/dp/019088214X) by Audrey Kurth Cronin.
* Is decentralization a good thing?
* "Decentralizing the capacity for catastrophic destruction."
* 3D printing weapons.
* Crypto currencies (Bitcoin, etc.) Would stop us from sanctioning Russia when they invade Ukraine?
* Twitter vs. Mastodon.
  * Nazis using platform.
  * Minority instances get abused?
* 5m: Alfred Nobel, invention of dynamite. Way more stable, powerful that gunpowder.
  Endowed Peace Prize partly because he felt guilty about dynamite (later used horrifically
  in WWI, WWII).
  * 9m: Dynamite companies begging for regulation.
* 12m: Buy drones from Amazon, network them with AIs from github. Facial recognition, weaponized.
* 13m: Bowling alley analogy:
  * gutter 1: People in their basements printing bio weapons killing millions.
  * gutter 2: Living in a dystopian authoritarian surveillance state.
* TikTok meme: national shoot up your school day. Millions of people see that. Either nothing happens
  but millions of people are scared. Or school shootings happen. Either way terrorists win.
* 18m: Mobilization is no longer solely a power of governments. For good and ill. Napolean, 
  French Revolution, invention of conscription, invented the central power of the state. Now
  individuals have that power on social media.
* 19m: Christ Church shooter: inspired by the Internet, live streamed to the Internet, contagion effect
  of people joining him. And copycats. Increase in violence, anger.
* 28m: Forcing ALL social media companies of a certain size to set aside externalities and cleanup
  funds. 
* 36m: The way out is to care for each other.
* 40m: Surveillance vs Sousveillance
* 41m: Media coverage of train bombings making tons of money, driving more attacks. Many great media
  empires were built this way. Eventually editorial standards were created because they were a part
  of the problem. Which helped end the wave of dynamitings. Social contagion theory. JFK killing
  inspired more assasinations. Best predictor of plane hijacking is a previous, highly publicized
  hijacking.
* 45m: Some sort of required ethics training when you have X followers. Because lots of people on TikTok
  etc. have more followers than major newspapers had a few years ago.


