---
layout: post
title:  "42 Nebraska Permitless Carry w/ Melody Vaccaro"
date: 2023-08-29 18:20:34 -0600
categories: 
duration: 1:15:33
length: 31447389
link: "https://s3.amazonaws.com/jayflaunts.jays.net/042.mp3"
excerpt_separator: Transcript
---
Melody Vaccaro, executive director of 
[Nebraskans Against Gun Violence](https://nebraskansagainstgunviolence.com)
and Jay talk about Nebraska 
[LB77](https://nebraskalegislature.gov/bills/view_bill.php?DocumentID=49710):
"Provide for carrying of concealed handguns without a permit, change provisions relating to concealed weapons, and prohibit certain regulation of weapons by cities, villages, and counties."

<a href="{{site.storage_url}}/042.mp3" target="_blank">042.mp3</a> (1h 15m 31MB)

If you'd like to call into the show, you can leave a voicemail at +1-402-577-0117.
If you like the show, consider [giving us $1 a month on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/jayflaunts)
so we can waste your money instead of our own. :)

* 1m: 2023 Nebraskans Against Gun Violence (NAGV): [Great job Omaha Metro (we're kidding)](https://nagv.substack.com/p/great-job-omaha-metro-were-kidding)
* 2m: 2017 NAGV: [How the NRA Punked Nebraska’s District 13](https://medium.com/@NebGunReform/how-the-nra-punked-nebraskas-district-13-ca8e7c1b9a29)
* 3m: 2023 Nebraska LB77 [Final Vote](https://nebraskalegislature.gov/bills/view_votes.php?KeyID=9079)
* 31m: 2011 [Millard South High School shooting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Millard_South_High_School#2011_shooting)
* 32m: 2023 [Fifth grader brought loaded gun to Lincoln school, LPS says](https://www.klkntv.com/fifth-grader-brought-loaded-gun-to-school-lps-says/)
* 34m: 2012 [Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandy_Hook_Elementary_School_shooting)
* 40m: 2023 [Omaha Target store shooting](https://www.wowt.com/2023/02/03/omaha-target-shooting-police-detail-timeline-events/)
* 1h 13m: [Seeing Red Nebraska Podcast](https://seeingrednebraska.com/category/the-pod/)

Editing note:

Melody: Can you change the title from constitutional carry to permitless carry
or gun law changes or whatever else? Const. carry is actually a propaganda
slogan used to spread the idea that gun laws are not allowed by order of the
constitution, which is very much untrue.

Jay: Yup, back at a computer in 30m, thanks.

Transcript (via [OpenAI Whisper](https://platform.openai.com/docs/tutorials/meeting-minutes)):

We can talk about anything you want as JFLONS is ignorant. Welcome to JFLONS
Ignorance, Episode 42. I'm with Melody Vaccaro, Executive Director of
Nebraskans Against Gun Violence. I had some questions about a mailer that they
had sent out in their blog post, and she was gracious enough to answer all
those questions, and much, much more. We talk about the Nebraska legislature,
and a bunch of gun issues, and how citizens can try to engage with their local
democratic process. So I hope you enjoy the episode. If you have any thoughts
or feedback for us, you can leave a voicemail for the show at 1-402-577-0117.
Thanks. Apologies for the hum behind my microphone when I start talking in this
episode. We've had Windows problems, and the audio engineer has been sacked.
It's not behind Melody's microphone. Her mic sounds better than mine,
ironically, because she's over Discord. And I'm sitting on the mic, but I was
having Windows problems. Apologies. Her audio is better than mine. Stick it out
for a second. How I first heard, I think, about all of the things that we
talked about last week at all was through the Nebraskans Against Gun Violence
newsletter. So I'm subscribed, so I get an email, and I was trying to process
one of the emails that went out. That is a substack, I believe, which we'll
link to. And the article that got me going was an August 18th article, which is
titled, Great Job, Omaha Metro, We're Kidding. And it was about the passing of
LB77, which is Permitless Carry and Firearm Preemption. And so I just asked a
question related to my local—I'm trying to become an engaged citizen in our
democracy. And so in my ignorance of how— Easier said than done. How these
things actually work on the ground is I was like, OK, well, Justin Wayne is my
representative for the house that I live in. So let me go see how Justin Wayne
voted to get LB77 passed or not passed. And that opened a whole can of worms
about the history of how votes have gone all the way back to 2017. We'll link
to another article on your—oh, no, back then it was a Medium post. So back in
2017, April 2017, Nebraskans Against Gun Violence posted to Medium how the NRA
punked Nebraska's District 13. And it talks about how voting patterns that can
be used for a senator that sits on a committee, how they can choose or not
choose to pass a bill out of committee. Select file is before it goes to—no, it
goes out of committee into select file. Is that right? Is that the Nebraska
nomenclature? Well, so this is all getting, like, maybe too messy too fast. Let
me take you just a step back. So we're—let's just, like, set the ground here
what we're talking about. We're talking about this policy idea, which recently
passed in Nebraska, which is—it is a firearm preemption policy. And
preemption—you can have preemption on all kinds of things. This one's specific
to firearms, but it doesn't have to be. And what preemption is, it's a legal
framework where a higher level of government takes away governing authority
from a lower level of government. And so sometimes this makes sense, right? So
if you say, I want—perhaps you are concerned because you think that lower
levels of government are not providing the right levels of education for
children. And at this higher level of government, you want to say, hey, you
know what? Actually, you don't get to opt certain children out of public
education. And, like, you have a duty to do all these things, and you don't get
to decide that at a lower level of government, right? Or maybe you say, we have
certain environmental protections that we expect as a state. You can have more
environmental protections at the local level or not, but for sure you've got to
have this minimum level, right? So that's like an example of a preemption where
you might be on board with. You're like, you know what? We probably should have
some sort of driver's license. This is a great example of preemption. It
doesn't really make sense for 93 counties to have a driver's license policy,
right? Like, you just go and you get your driver's license, and you expect that
it's some sort of standard across the state. So that's what preemption is. It
kind of flies in the face of this idea of local government being the best kind
of government possible, where you get the most control when it comes to things
around industry. So industry, they love preemption. They love preemption
because it is really easier to make deals with 49 state senators. That's not
that hard. It's not easy, but it's not that hard. What's really hard is to make
a deal with 93 county boards, or you just exponentially grow every single city
council, right? Every single whatever government board we're talking about. So
if you're industry, you want to do things like let's ban tracking bans, right?
So this is something in oil industry. In Oklahoma, they've banned fracking
bans. Only the state can make fracking policy. So that means if you're like
Oklahoma City, and there's fracking happening near you, and it's messing up
things in your city infrastructure, too bad for you. You can go to the state
legislature and ask them if they care about Oklahoma City's problems. And maybe
they will, and maybe they won't. And that's where we're at for this gun issue.
So there's now firearm preemption for guns. And what that means is that cities
around the state have enacted firearm policy to address things that happened in
their city that at some point they found concerning. Firearm preemption says
absolutely not. You cannot govern on this topic anymore. I think cities are
allowed to have banning discharge of firearms within city limits, and that's
about the only kind of policy they can have now. And that's it. And places like
Omaha, they have a handgun registry, right? So when people have a handgun in
Omaha, you have to register it. They have no guns in city parks kind of rules.
Omaha has a really interesting policy where if you want to openly carry a gun
in public outside of your clothes, it's not hidden, you have to have your
concealed carry permit. So that the public, law enforcement, there's some sort
of agreement between the person who decided to carry and the public that, like,
we could have police ask for your concealed carry permit, just like a driver's
license, right? If they think you're doing something a little weird, maybe not
illegal, but maybe a little weird, they can be like, hey, are you even allowed
to have that gun? Let me see your concealed carry permit. So Omaha's got laws
like that. Lincoln's a college town, right? Next biggest city in the state.
We're a college town. That's where I live. And what happens in college towns, a
lot of sexual assault, right? We all know that. We've got young women away from
home. We've got young men away from home. And that's just, you know, we see
that in college towns everywhere. And that's something that college towns are
always trying to come up with creative solutions to protect young people who
are away from home for the first time in places they're not generally from so
that they can be safe and thrive as they explore their pathways into adulthood.
Right? That's college town stuff. So Lincoln has an ordinance that if you have
been convicted of stalking because this had been a problem in Lincoln, you
don't get to have guns in the city for 10 years. So that's interesting. Lincoln
has an ordinance. You can't have guns in drug rehab or domestic violence
shelters. Now, these places, with or without a policy like that, you can still
ban guns. But the difference is when it comes to actually enforcing a ban, for
you to have committed a crime, I need the government to say it's a crime to do
this action. Otherwise, you're saying these people who already have really hard
jobs keeping really vulnerable people safe, people trying to do drug recovery,
recover from sexual assault, domestic violence. We're saying they have to talk
to people armed and say, I'm sorry, sir, could you please not have a gun in
this space that any reasonable person would not think to bring a gun into
unless they were planning something violent? Could you please not? We have a
rule. That's what it requires now to have broken the law. The way the ordinance
is written, you know, York, this is a really interesting thing about York,
Nebraska. They have a city ordinance that says you can, if you have a gun store
in town, you have to have a security system that alerts police in case you're
robbed in the middle of the night. So that we don't have a bunch of guns just
showing up in the criminal market from a gun store because people didn't
realize it until morning and they cleaned out the whole gun shop. So these are
the kinds of things that are happening around the state. And the kickoff of
this conversation between you and I really happened because that is passed.
Preemption is passed and all of those ordinances are going to be nullified. It
doesn't mean cities will get rid of them, but it means they can't enforce them.
They can't be on the books. They can be on the books. They can't be enforced
because they're nullified. They don't have that authority anymore. So I'm
familiar, I think, with the Nebraska State Patrol guidelines for concealed
carry. What is legal and what's not legal as far as posting that you can't
carry a firearm into a location has the force of law. I assume all of that is
still valid statewide because that's the Nebraska State Patrol set of
guidelines. Is that true? So the other piece of policy that was passed, they
coupled two policies together. There's preemption and then there's the
concealed carry permit. The concealed carry permit, there already was
preemption. Local communities could not have a higher bar for concealed carry
than the state, which is very similar to the driver's license. But now the
concealed carry permit is no longer required. So if the concealed carry permit
is no longer required, the prohibitions that existed in the concealed carry
permit, they have to exist elsewhere in statute for them to still apply. So
when I was a concealed carry holder, though, what I was taught in the
NRA-driven class, right, that you have to go and take the class, is that if
they've posted it in the state of Nebraska that you can't have firearms,
including concealed carry firearms, any business owner anywhere in the state,
my understanding was, can post, hey, no firearms here. And that holds the force
of law in Nebraska. At least it did. I'm trying to understand, like, if I run a
donut shop and I don't want guns in my shop and I say, and I post it the way
that the Nebraska State Patrol said that I have to, is that still going to be
valid this November? Or has that also been? Well, let's, let's untangle all
that. First of all, the state, there is no way you're supposed to post it.
There is no guidance from the state on here is how you post that you don't want
guns in your place of business. Or your, so that's, let's, that's one thing.
Really? There is no standard. No. There's not like a specific, like, PDF that
you print, but I thought. No. No, there's not. But if you find a statute and
prove me wrong, I am, I love to learn. So, you know. Well, I think I'm just
repeating what they taught me in the concealed carry class. I mean, if you're,
if you're telling, if you're telling me that the gun industry wants people to
believe that public safety policy exists, that doesn't exist, color me shocked.
Oh, no, I don't, I don't think the gun industry wants that to be true in
Nebraska, but, but what our instructor educated us on in the state of Nebraska,
at least eight years ago or whatever, when I did this was that, hey, you can be
cited for a gun, a gun violation. If you enter a premises that posts like this
in the state of Nebraska, you've broken the law, you've broken a gun law and
you there's consequences for that. You know, if they. So the way it works.
Here's let's untangle it of like how that would actually play out in a court of
law. One, you have to prove that you saw it. Which is pretty hard to prove that
you actually saw the sign. And if you didn't see it, you didn't break the law.
Okay. Now, and if they ask you to leave and you say, no, I'm not going to
leave, then you broke the law. But absolutely just having a sign and then you
not seeing it or pretending you didn't see it. That's not really an actionable
thing by the justice system. Oh, really? Okay. Like they would have to prove
you didn't see it. Which would be pretty hard to do. Versus a prohibition on
types of spaces. You know, you cannot bring guns into schools. Absolutely not.
It doesn't matter if they post it. It doesn't matter if they've asked you to
leave or not. You cannot do it. They could. It's a very clear they can train
this at a class. You cannot do it. It does not require you seeing a sign. It
does not require someone asking you to leave. Therefore, you can actually hold
someone accountable to the rules. Okay. Yeah. Are probably not in line with
what the NRA would prefer the instructor do. The instructor really put the fear
of God into us about concealed carry and making sure that nobody saw anything.
Because he was very worried. And that's so ethical. And I'm glad that they did
that. Because that is how people should behave. And I definitely don't want to
dispute that. Like people should behave in that way and people should be
taught. Do not fuck around with your gun. Do not go to places where you're not
wanted with your gun. Right. Don't do it. Be a good person and don't do it.
That is reasonable. I will also say the chances that you're going to be held
accountable in a court of law. When you can easily claim, oh, I didn't see the
sign. I, you know. Oh, yeah. I don't know how. I don't know if there's ever
been a case where someone said, oh, I don't know. I didn't see it. And I just
walked in. I don't know if that's ever been brought before a judge to see what
they would do. I have no idea. Yeah. I mean, I just don't. I can't even
imagine. Like, and then you'd have to stay there long enough for the police to
come. And then it would just like be a whole thing. So thank you for educating
me on that. Because all I know is what I was told. And I didn't, I didn't
realize that. Okay. Well, as a practical matter, that's not really. It doesn't
really have teeth, which I didn't know. So that's, that's very useful to me.
But here's the thing about guns that I think that we lose sight of when we have
these debates, because people feel this debate in their bones. People align
their whole identity around a for-profit consumer product. They align their
identity with it. And so to talk about it, it's like trying to discuss whether
or not Jesus is a mystical figure who saved you from your sins, right? Yeah.
It's not a rational conversation for a lot of people. And, you know, so this
is, this is very real. I went to a public health class at a college and I was
talking to these young people. And this, this young woman said to me, my
family, I'm a runner and my family keeps encouraging me to get a gun so that
I'm safe when I'm running. And I just don't know how to argue their point
because they are really persuasive about how dangerous it is and how I need a
gun. And I said, okay, well, let's break it down. Let's break it down into real
life and take the heat out of this debate. Are you willing to regularly go to
the gun range and learn how to use that gun and stay on top of your learning?
Right. And she said, no. I was like, okay, well, then you're not safe to carry
a gun. I said, are you, I said, where do you wear like a little tank top or a
sports bra and like little running shorts or leggings or something like that
when you run? And she was like, yeah, I do. I said, okay, where are you going
to put your gun? Like on your person, where, because she's a runner and she
needs to be lightweight and she's trying to get in her miles every day. I was
like, where, how are you going to hold the gun? Do you want it clunking around
in a fanny pack? Do you want to wear a whole like strap to your side of your
body that we can see through your leggings? Like, what do you think in here?
And she was like, oh, God, I'm not doing that. I was like, okay. And I was
like, how many, you know, like if we think about statistically, like, what is
the likelihood that you are going to be in such a dangerous situation that you
are going to be willing and have the space to kill somebody with your gun?

And she was like, I mean, probably not. I was like, okay, well, now you know.
Now somebody else might have different answers and they might actually say, you
know what, I'm going to figure this out because that's really important to me.
Oh yeah. There's a thousand products on the market that will sell you solutions
to those problems. The first problem that I think is extremely valid in that,
in my opinion, if you're ever going to think about using a firearm for
protection, yeah, you need to be at the range quite a lot because it's a very
fungible skill. I used to do competition shooting years ago and it was stunning
how much time the fastest, most accurate people put into it. Like you know,
crazy. For me it was just a hobby, but for them it was like a lifestyle hobby.
It was like their main thing they do, you know, and that's how you get to
regional competitions and the national competitions and you know, your skillset
is just insane. Like these guys are 20 times faster than me and more accurate
and I'm like, holy smokes, that is an amazing skillset that they have. But it
does, it definitely degrades. Like just because I was okay six, eight years
ago, whatever it was, you know, I would be starting over again, you know, if I
wanted to get back into the hobby, which I don't currently have any interest in
doing. So it was always insane to me that Nebraska had, we had, which I thought
was a bare minimum of safety. Just go take one class and then show that you're
not going to probably shoot, you're probably not going to shoot your foot if
you try to fire your gun under no time pressure, no adrenaline at all, right?
That's what Nebraska required. And in Iowa, you know, your grandpa can stick a
gun wherever, grandma in their purse, whatever, and just have it loose rattling
around in a purse. And that's legal in Iowa. And I was like, that is so stupid
that Iowa does that. I'm so glad Nebraska has our thing. It's not hard. Like,
if you're worried about self-defense, our Nebraska, getting a concealed carry
permit was not hard in Nebraska. All you had to have was basic mechanical
ability and basic mental capacity to kind of understand, you know, what you're
signing up for. And I thought that was a bare minimum, which wasn't, you know,
at all an enormous hurdle for self-defense if you feel like you need it, you
know, so sure. And now LB 77, okay, well, Nebraska, I guess, you know, we're
Iowa now, so right. I mean, this is the thing. And this is their argument. Was
that like a one day class to bring a lethal weapon into the public square, into
the grocery store, into everywhere, that there is, that's too high. It's too
high for the public to ask an individual to do literally anything so that the
public could be assured, well, at least I know they knew the rules. At least I
know somebody had a look at them and was like, okay, you know, I don't like,
it's just gone. It's that was too much to ask of individuals. And I don't
understand how anyone can think that both we need voter registration to stop
vote fraud, which basically doesn't happen. And yet now we don't even need you
to go to a range once to carry a gun. It just boggles my mind that we think
both these things simultaneously, that one, the government has to be involved
in voting to make sure people aren't vote frauding. And yet the government
should not, cannot be allowed to have any effect at all on carrying a deadly
weapon. And the people have both of those things in their head at the same
time. I just, it eludes me how that makes sense, how people can say both of
those things. So I can understand. I was talking to a friend about voter
registration and they kind of lean, they lean kind of in the libertarian kind
of viewpoints. And you know, we're talking about, talking about voter
registration and at some point they said, you know, if people have not given
any consideration to voting, the consequences to the public can be pretty dire.
And he's right, you know, of course he's right. Your votes have consequences
for sure. And so I totally get that. And he's like, if you're not even willing
to just go get a state ID, why should we let you participate in this really
kind of almost like a secular sacred thing that we do where we choose the
leaders? If you're not even willing to do this really basic thing, what's kind
of his point? And I said, you know, okay, I can kind of get on board with that
thinking, right? Like I'm not a, I think that's pretty pragmatic and that's a
reasonable conclusion to draw. And I said that to him and I said, okay, so now
let's take what you've said about harm to the public good as a reason to need
people to meet some sort of minimum standard to participate in civic society.
Let's apply that to guns. And he took a big deep breath in and said, I don't
have to think about that. Did he say he was going to think about it? Yeah. Like
he just like, it had not occurred to him that there was a conflict in his
logic. Oh, that's exciting. That's exciting that he had that epiphany,
hopefully. You know, like if your reason is like that an individual owes the
public some sort of minimum standard to participate in some types of civic
engagement, I actually agree. We're not in disagreement there. I think you do
have to, you do owe a minimum effort. I don't disagree, but I think we can very
much disagree about the nuance and the details of that, how that plays out in
real life. But I just generally agree with the statement, but yeah, you got to
apply it all the way through. Was there another conversation after that one?
Was there any follow up on that? No, there wasn't. Oh, bummer. I really want to
hear when people, when they hit a thing, right, which it works very well when
it's their thoughts, not you trying to convince somebody else, but it's their
thoughts. And then they're like, well, how does that apply in this situation?
And yeah, I listen to a lot of podcasts about persuasion, like how do you ever
change anyone's mind about anything ever, right? And usually it comes from
helping that person see from inside their own head, their own conflicts of
their own opinions. It usually has nothing to do with an external opinion
coming at them out of the blue, no matter how well argued or statistically
backed or anything, none of that really matters. All that matters is if you can
get a moment of clarity where someone is like, oh, wait a minute. What I'm
thinking inside my own brain isn't congruent. That's the only time anyone ever
changes their mind about anything. You know, this is why I really like to take
time. I mean, one, I never went back to him because I wasn't trying to do any,
I mean, this is a friend of mine. We just were on a conversation, but I mean,
nobody wants to be trolled by their friend who runs the gun control group. And
then every time you talk to them, they're going to push to see where you are on
guns. Like nobody wants to be friends with that person, right? That sounds
annoying. I don't want a friend like that. Every time they're trying to
persuade me of something. But I think when the topic comes up, it's really
important to take apart the rhetoric, think it through, like really think about
pragmatically, does this hold any water when I, you know, does it? I don't
know. Like think it through. Think about it pragmatically because a lot of, a
lot of the gun lobby rhetoric, it just really falls apart. It really falls
apart. Let me give you an example. When I'm watching the gun lobby testify on
whatever bill, it doesn't matter what the bill is really. When I'm watching
them testify, it is, I think people don't understand how ludicrous what they're
saying is, but I've just heard all their nonsense so many times that I just
hear it. There was once a guy and they were trying to get rid of the hundred
dollar fee. No, they were, I think they were trying to get rid of the concealed
carry permit. It was one of the times they were trying to do that. And this guy
was, I mean, really deeply upset. He was really upset because he has some young
woman in his life who is disabled and she can't afford the concealed carry
permit class, but she was in a bad relationship and he wants her to arm up to
be safe. Why wouldn't he buy it for her if money's the problem? Right. Nobody
asks him that. And nobody ever says like, here's the thing, when we don't, when
children go home hungry and we know children go home to houses where they don't
serve dinner and they barely eat on the weekends, we know this, we know this.
And the solution society has come up with is therefore we have to have
nonprofits and people with open hearts have to give their money or we have to
have children go around the neighborhood collecting canned goods. And we have
to do all this work to make sure there's enough food for children. You cannot
live without enough food. You cannot grow up healthy. You will have a lifetime
of struggles if you did not get to thrive as a child, right? And including a
good nutritious set of meals every day. We know this and yet that's the
solution for society. But the solution for violence against women by the gun
lobby is like we have to get rid of all the laws about guns because men, women
are afraid of men with guns. And therefore we can't have any rules because
that's what keeps women safe, getting rid of the rules. There's more guns. The
answer is always more guns. And it's funny, but like it's not funny. No, I
know. It's crazy. But it's not. That is really, that is really their solution
that really, and they believe it. And they have not done any hefty analysts.
They're like, well, we can't have policy that requires people to lock up their
guns and keep them away from kids because poor people can't afford gun safes.
The gun industry is a billion dollar industry. There is literally no reason
they can't be given away gun safes as, and then get a tax write off. All that
infrastructure exists. They just have to do it and they don't. This is not a
problem. This is not a barrier. Poor people can't afford a gun safe. Absolutely
not. Because when you take it down to its roots, you look at, um, think about
school shootings. Everybody's afraid of school shootings, right? Who's not
afraid of school shootings? When we had a school shooting in Omaha at Millard
South, I think it was like 2010, 2011. Yeah. 2011. My son was in school when
that happened. That gun showed up because the dad, a police officer, didn't
lock up his gun and he didn't have to, by the way, that's not the rule. He
didn't lock up his gun. And so that kid took dad's gun, brought it to school
and expressed his emotions of the day and it killed people. And when we look at
that, we'd go, well, that kid, what a rotten egg. You can be a disaffected
youth and not kill a bunch of people at school. All we have to do is not arm
you. And all we have to do to keep guns away from kids is lock them up. It's
like literally not hard. It is actually the easiest thing possible. In Lincoln
last year, an elementary schooler brought a gun to a local elementary school. I
think they brought a handgun, put it in their backpack, whatever. And the
school sends out a notification to parents to let them all know, don't you
worry, this kid will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Don't you
worry, we're going to solve this problem. A child who has such shitty
decision-making powers that we won't leave candy on the counter because we know
they're going to grab it and eat it when we don't want them to. But someone who
we literally don't leave home alone because we don't think they have the
capacity to keep themselves safe because they're too little, that's the
problem? That kid's the problem? No, the problem is their parents left a gun
laying around and they took it to school. Because kids do that kind of stuff.
And we don't have any space in the conversation to go, adults need to be
responsible for their actions. They need to keep their guns away from
unauthorized users. They need to take their training classes. They need to,
they owe the public a standard. They just do. And we can argue about what it is
and how that looks like and what that feels like. And those are worthwhile
arguments to have, hash out the details. But this idea that we just get rid of
all the laws, it is totally bananas. It's just totally bananas. And my totally
bananas idea is America would be much safer with millions of fewer guns in
America. That's my totally bananas idea. I don't understand how many decades
and how many thousands of lives we're going to lose before we realize what the
Australians realized in the 90s. And I thought for sure when Sandy Hook
happened, I was like, holy shit, okay, well, this is our moment. This is when
America is going to realize that we can't, that more guns is not the answer,
right? And I was just devastated that as a nation, apparently our political
apparatus has decided that no, more guns is the answer. That's how we're going
to solve the problem of guns is more guns. And I just, I don't understand. So I
don't think there should be no guns. I think there should be millions of fewer
guns and you should only have access to one if you have, if you're being
stalked, if you've gotten death threats, that sort of thing should put you on a
very special, like, oh crap, okay, this person actually needs, needs this. So,
and if we would. Sure. And, and here's a more like middle of the road position,
right? Like I can hold actually a lot of practical positions in my brain,
right? I have my own kind of thoughts on the matter, but like practically as a
society, how do we move through? Maybe, maybe there really is. Maybe you're in
such an extreme minority. That's not even viable, right? Maybe, but maybe it
is. And people should advocate for the policies that they want. And but like,
what if here's a, here's something like totally radical. What if when you were
dangerous and you were identified as dangerous by people who know you and like,
there was like a way to go like, oh man, we're very concerned about this
person. What if we could disarm you? And what if we held gun sellers, private
and gun stores to a higher standard about who they sell guns to? Yeah. That's
part of my bananas plan. What if, what if instead of like by default,
everybody's approved to buy any gun they want for any reason at all. What if
the first step is like, you have to go to your gun class and do your background
check. You get basically your concealed carry permit and then you can go buy
your gun. What is that? I mean, there's ways through it, but like, this is
really sad. So whoever's listening, if you're not feeling sad, don't, you know,
maybe turn it, skip a couple minutes. But I was, I had a mom reach out to me
last year. She had an adult son who had his guns taken away by the sheriff. And
she begged the sheriff, and this is rural Nebraska, you know, somewhere like
somewhere near Kearney-ish, I think, and the sheriff had to give the guns back.
And she begged him and she said, please, please, please, please, we need, don't
give him his guns back. He's not okay. He's in crisis right now. And they said,
well, we just don't, we don't have a way to keep the guns away. There's no
process for this. So I'm going to give them back even though I don't want to.
Okay, so he does. That guy threatens to kill his own children and his parents.
His dad talks him down and he goes out to the back to the trailer he was living
out on the farm. So he goes back to his little trailer where he's living. And
he ends his own life in the backyard. And that could have been prevented if we
had a process to keep the guns away from that guy, right? Like everybody knew
he was a danger to himself and others. And almost an entire family was
slaughtered. And she lost her son, who maybe could have got better and been
there to help raise his kids and whatever all. But same, similar story in
Omaha, a mom called me a couple weeks ago. And she has an adult son. And he's
not, he's been in and out of services all through high school and has some
pretty serious problems that everybody knows about. But somehow he's not
flagged as like being a prohibited person to buy a gun, maybe. Don't exactly
know the details, but we do know he was able to buy a gun and he did. And then
he thought something scary was happening. It wasn't. But he thought and then he
shot a gun in public and a bullet like grazed some woman's arm. And she was
just like riding her bike, like just going by, wasn't interacting. He was like
shooting at someone else that wasn't, you know, but anyway, his mom called and
was like, how did he even get a gun?

How do we stop people like my son from getting guns, because now this kid who
is severely mentally ill, like he sees things that aren't there, he hears
people who are not speaking to him, right, like he's not, he does not have a
healthy brain, but now he's sitting in jail. Right? And it didn't have to end
that way. If we could have just kept that guy disarmed, this wouldn't be the
situation, right? And we are not, because we are still talking about nonsense
like the concealed carry permit class is too big of a leap, because we can't
get past these violent fantasies, which are predominantly spread by men, not
entirely, but predominantly, there's these violent hero fantasies where if I
just have enough, enough weaponry, and I'm tough enough and strong enough and
brave enough, I'll be able to kill anyone and then we'll all be safer. Like
violence doesn't create peace. It just doesn't. So we have to be talking about
something different than these violent fantasies where people think they're
going to save the day, because it's terrible. That guy in Omaha recently,
there's a third story with the AR, and he'd already had his guns taken away a
bunch of times and his family kept taking away his guns, but he kept getting
more guns. And then the police killed him in the target, right? And it was
really tragic because that guy was not okay, and he shouldn't have been able to
keep getting guns, but because we won't have a serious conversation about this,
people are, people are losing their lives and they don't have to be. So under
our system in Nebraska, if you've been convicted of a felony, you can lose gun
rights. Is that true? That's true, right? It's true. Okay. And that's, is that
the only mechanism? There's no, there's no way, any mental health, anything
until you've committed a felony, is there no mechanism? There is, there are
certain domestic violence misdemeanors that you can lose your guns. And there
is a process where you can be marked as like having such profound mental health
problems that you become prohibited. So it's really hard, it's really hard.
It's really hard to get that designation. And it should be, you know, you don't
want the government just going around declaring people lose their rights willy
nilly. And it's really hard to undo it once it's done. What you need is some
kind of mechanism that renews, that has a due process where people can have a
lawyer that advocates for them and you know, you need a robust, healthy
process. But those are the only, really the only three ways that you can be
prohibited. And here's the thing, you're prohibited. You end up in the Brady
background check system, somehow, someway, right, okay, cool. But private sales
in Nebraska, if it's a handgun sale, you do have to see their handgun permit,
and which is awesome. That's a great policy. But for long guns, if I, if you
have an AR, and you want to sell it to me, you don't have to verify that I'm
allowed to buy it from you. We put all the onus of accountability on the end on
the buyer. And if you're a private seller of a long gun, that's it, you can do
whatever you want. So you're telling me if I sold a handgun, I would need to
see their purchase permit that's valid, right? Their ID shows me it's them or
whatever. But yeah, I can sell any long gun to anyone privately. And the legal
problem is the buyer's problem, not my problem. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah. Yeah, that's the law. Wow. That doesn't seem sufficient. Right. Now, if
you are an ethical person, you're going to see that handgun permit, any gun
that leaves your hand, you're going to do a little diligence to check, right?
And you're going to see like, hey, did they, if they have their purchase, those
renew every three years, they include a background check, right? It's kind of
like a driver's license. You're not going to let someone drive your car if you
like, you have a license, right? Like, can I see your license? Oh, sure. Yeah.
It's not hard to get that purchase permit. It's not hard to keep it renewed.
And I've only had one private purchase event in my life. And I think he went
above and beyond what he had to do and did all the things that you would expect
him to do. And I don't think legally in the state of Iowa that he had to do
that. I don't think he was mandated by law that he do that or anything. So I
mean, a lot of states don't have any regulation of private sales at all. They
don't do anything private sales. And there are loopholes to that background
check, the private sale for handguns. There's loopholes. Like, so let's say you
want to give all your guns to your kid. Okay, cool. But your kid might be
prohibited and you didn't know and they didn't tell you. People don't know
everything about their kids. Oh, there's no, I mean, like, say a private seller
wants to see if they're prohibited. There's no search. I can't do a search to
see if someone's prohibited. How would I? How would I do that if I wanted to?
Well, if you if they had a handgun permit, then you would know, right? You
would know in the last three years they were allowed to buy guns. Yeah, I would
know three years ago that they hadn't engaged in domestic violence at the time
and gotten on some list that I don't have access to search. But I wouldn't know
that that happened a month ago. And that's why they want the gun is because now
they're on this list. I don't have any way of verifying that. Seeing the list.
Yeah. I don't. So I'm, I'm a data guy. Unless if you went to, if you went to an
FFL, like a federal firearms license dealer, they might be able to run it for
you there. Oh, but nobody's going to do that. Nobody's going to go into
Cabela's and say, Hey, Cabela's do this thing that isn't going to make you any
money. I'm trying to do a private sale. Can you do a background check for me
real quick? Cabela's is busy trying to make money. So they're not going to do
it. Like, why would they? You know, right. They've got a business to run. It's
not, yeah, I'm making them any money anyway. Yeah. I mean, we do have some big
loopholes, like, you know, I just always like to bring up violence against
women as an issue, because this is a really slick talking point that the gun
lobby uses that we have to, we can't have laws because it hurts women. But
here's what actually the law is right now. There hardly are any laws. If you
beat the ever living crap out of your partner, right, and this doesn't matter
what gender your partner is, if you beat the ever living crap out of them, and
they're sitting in a hospital because you have hurt them so badly, that does
not bar you from guns, because you have not been convicted of anything, right?
You're like in that weird gray period, and there's no great mechanism that can
be engaged to go, you know what, we're going to take all the guns out of this
family's home. And we're going to just put a ban on this guy for a little bit
while we just figure out what the hell's going on. Because something's not
right. No, no, that guy can go out and arm up because there's no rules. He's
not been convicted, and we don't have like a temporary stopgap measure. So I'm
beaten to a pulp, I'm in the hospital, the police show up, I want to press
charges. They go to my partner's house, right? They walk in there, they've got
37 guns, maybe or maybe not they get arrested, but under no conditions can they
take the guns? They could take them if they chose to, they don't have to. Oh,
they can take them? They can seize weaponry out of a household of an abused
abuser? They can kind of, they can seize anything that they want to seize for a
temporary measure if they want to. I mean, police have a ton of power. They can
kind of do what they want in the heat of a moment, you know? So that becomes
evidence in the assault case against me that's pending, right? And so now
that's in the evidence lockup at the police station or whatever, until some
future court date, right? Maybe, maybe, unless there's like a defense lawyer
who's able to lobby, like, listen, this guy's innocent until proven guilty. We
don't, we're not going to admit that we did, we hurt this person. We think it
was some other way that they got hurt. You know, there's no, it's just
complicated, right? We're not talking through these complications as a matter
of policy because we don't actually want to keep anybody safe from violence
when it comes to guns. And I'll give you, I'll give you an example. My own
sister was, you know, severely harmed by her spouse. And that guy went to jail
and, you know, the sheriff came and watches, she like packed a bag and we had
to get her out of there. And I said, Hey, can you take, you know, there's a
couple of guns here. Can you take these and take these giant hunting knives and
just get all this out of here? Because he'll be back from jail in a couple of
days and they come home. That's where they go. And they're only in jail a
couple of days. If that, right. This was a holiday weekend. So he was there a
couple more days than that, but, and the deputy in Cass County, he said no. He
said, no, he wouldn't take them. So legally they have discretion you're saying,
but they chose not to, and they could have chosen to do it or not to do it. It
was just up to the officer to do whatever he wanted or the deputy. Now, thank
God this didn't happen. But if that guy would have gotten out of jail and then
used his guns and killed my sister, which definitely happens to people every
day, then there's no recourse for me to like hold them accountable and say, you
didn't do the right thing. And you put my sister in harm's way because you
wouldn't take these guns because he didn't have to. This is the thing about
laws is that they hold, you can hold people accountable if you have the right
laws on the books and we can argue about exactly what the right laws are and
exactly how to word them and exactly how to carve them to both protect the
public and protect due process. We can have those arguments. And what I'm
telling, you know, what'd you call it? The dozens of listeners of your podcast,
what I'm saying is we're not having those conversations. We are having
conversations about like, well, should we get rid of all the laws or not? Those
are the conversations we're having and they're not, it's not reasonable. It's
not reasonable. And to start to go very, the beginning of this conversation
that you and I've been having when you were reading the newsletter for
Nebraskans Against Gun Violence and we said, we made some kind of pithy title
about, you know, being, you know, the Omaha Metro, congrats to Omaha Metro or
something, you know, like a lot of Omaha senators, including yours, Justin
Wayne, greased the bill through that nullified local ordinances around the
state and removed the requirement for training and background checks that come
with the concealed carry permit. It was if Omaha, just the city of Omaha, Omaha
senators had said, you know what, Omaha's the biggest city. We have the biggest
population and we actually think there may be some Omaha city ordinances that
we probably, we don't like. Maybe we think they're unjust. Maybe we think
they're not legal. You know, sure, there may be, there may be. But we want to
handle this at the Omaha level because we don't want to lose the right to
govern Omaha. We don't want to lose the right. But that's not what they did.
That's not what many Omaha senators, including yours, Justin Wayne, that's not
the road they took. Instead, the road they took was to some of them actually
actively push it forward, you know, and then other ones fought it. But the way
Omaha votes and the way they picked their senators, this is what you get. Like
it really sucks. It sucks a whole lot. And the whole state is going to be, is
going to be a worse place. And Omaha specifically is going to have the biggest
increase of violence because Omaha is the biggest city in the state. And black
people will be disproportionately impacted. They're already disproportionately
impacted when it comes to homicide rates around the country and including in
Nebraska and Omaha. And that will just exacerbate and get worse. I hope to be
wrong. There may be somebody who says, well, you don't know. Yeah, you're
right. I don't know. But I can see trends and statistics and what happens in
other states and we're all human. So why would Nebraska be wildly different
than every other state in the country? As a general principle, does it feel
like committees should kill bills that they think they're going to lose on a
general vote? Like is that? So what the committee does, the committee does two
things. One, the point of the committee process is for the members of the
committee to become policy experts in the topics their committee covers, right?
Because state government, and this is true of any governing board, right? They
have a lot of things that they govern and you can't be an expert on everything.
So you're a generalist on most things, but you really get an expertise. And
judiciary, where this bill sat, is full of lawyers, right? Because it sees
things around criminal justice, constitutional issues, things like who goes to
jail and for how long and for what. Those are the kind of things that are
placed in front of judiciary. Those are complex legal questions. And you need
to be really familiar with the law and make sure that you don't push out things
that are contradictory, right? So once you are an expert, the thing about
bills, like your question is a little too binary. The thing about bills is like
some bills are really good ideas and probably everybody thinks they're a good
idea, just generally. But they might not make it out of committee because the
bill is written poorly. It is written in a shitty way, right? And that's not
even through malice. It can take a long time to get a bill churned out that's
really good. And the committee has to work really hard. They have a whole team
of legal scholars. And this is true of every committee. This is what they're
doing. And they say, okay, I see this is what you're trying to do and the
language isn't working. It's not constitutional or it's too broad. It's too
specific. You put in the wrong agency to address this. It actually should be
this other agency. We have to have really thorny policy debates about exactly
where we think this bill should go. So that is what committees do. And then
also, for sure, committees can say, I do not think this topic is good for
Nebraska. And when you vote a committee, a bill at a committee, you are at some
level giving it its first stamp of approval. Sure. So when we talk about
preemption, we're talking about LB77 preempting all the city ordinances, county
ordinances, if there are any, all over the state of Nebraska and deciding
there's one- Most of them. Yeah. Most of them. And deciding, hey, look, if you
want anything on this topic to be done, it has to be done in the Nebraska state
courthouse. You can't decide it locally. You can't decide it in your county.
And the committee structure is also saying, hey, we're not going to let all 50
senators vote on this. We're going to kill this. And it doesn't get out of
committee. And whether or not 50 people think this should pass or fail, the
committee decides. So these seven senators decide that the other 50 don't get
to vote on it. Right. And this happens all the time in every legislature across
the country. But yeah, it's interesting to try to understand. So my bias is
always towards, well, if I like a thing, of course I want preemption at the top
because I want that thing for everybody. And if I don't like a thing, of course
I want local control because I want to be able to influence the people who want
that thing. So that's my sarcastic answer to the question of states rights or
whatever version of preemption that we're talking about. I mean, the thing
about the thing about committees is that, you know, there is this really easy
rhetoric, right, where it's like, listen, if a senator brings it, the whole
body should get to vote on it. And that's very easy. That is an easy thing to
think and an easy thing to say. But let's break it apart and talk about the
pragmatics of what that means. Right. I just I always want to break things
apart. So there were like around a thousand bills last year or just this year.
Right. And every every year, actually, there's like, you know, between like
eight hundred plus bills because senators can bring a bill on anything they
want and they do. And that's fine. If the committees pushed out every single
bill that came through. Do you actually think they have time to thoughtfully
consider each bill that comes before them? No, they don't. And their job is to
be experts on the statute that they're pushing out. They should be an expert on
it by the time it comes out of committee. They pragmatically do not have that
kind of time. And so then there's nobody who's an expert on that piece of
policy by the time it comes out. So how is the rest of the body going to be an
expert when there's nobody who's given it careful study before it hit the
floor? OK, so there's that piece. Maybe that resonates and maybe it doesn't.
The other piece is. The point of politics is to. Figure things out.

So, if you are a senator who wants your bill out of committee, perhaps the
adult professional thing is to work with the committee and say, what is your
problem here? How can we address it? And in Omaha, on the bill we're talking
about, Omaha senators could very well have been like, we are concerned you
don't have any buy-in from our city police department. You don't have buy-in
from our county sheriff. You don't have buy-in from the Lincoln Police
Department. You don't have buy-in from Omaha City Council, Lincoln City
Council. You don't have the mayors on board. The League of Municipalities is
working against you here. And we think that they're really important
stakeholders in governance in Nebraska. And we want you to work with them and
then find a solution that even if I don't personally like it, at least you've
addressed these big governmental concerns that I have. That is something
committees do all the time. They say, until you get the buy-in of this really
important stakeholder in Nebraska, right, like I want an environmental state
law. Okay, that's great. We want you to work with the natural resources
districts and make sure they're on board with this change and that we're all
working together and collaboratively. Because this is not supposed to be a
process where one piece of the government shoves it down to the rest of the
government pieces. We should be working together and collaboratively. And
committees are the first protection to ensure that work is happening. And I
would argue strongly on this bill, the committee abdicated their duty to
government and to the public when they just greased it through. It strikes me
as an impossible job. Maybe I'm wrong. The job of state senator is you get paid
whatever it is, $40,000, $30,000 a year and- 12. It's 12. Okay, $12,000 a year
you're going to pay me. And there's going to be 1,000 bills and some of them
are trivial, like a local whatever wants to rename it, the memorial, whatever,
and if local sport has it, great, I'm done. You know, five minutes, I'm done, I
can vote. But some of these things require decades, I think, of experience in
the field and months of my time, full time, trying to understand, well, where
is everyone thinking on this and what is all the background about it and what
are all the legal precedents about it? And I just, I don't understand how a
state senator can possibly do their job. Like I don't understand these- Well,
let me- The bills that come before them are so fundamental, you know, they're
affecting millions of citizens. Like how do they do it? Yeah. How does a state
senator feel like they're doing their job when their job is impossible by
definition, it seems to me? I don't understand how it can be done. So here's
what happened. Let me tell you what happened. Here's how it used to work. And
here's how it works now. It used to be that you would have a state senator, and
they would be your state senator for like 20 years. They were there a long
time, they knew who all the stakeholders were, they deeply under- It would, and
it takes, if you want to do something like overhaul the foster care system,
which we need to do, right? If you want to work on something as complicated as
the overcrowding prison issue, you cannot do that being a state senator for two
years, four years, honestly, even six years. It's not until your seventh and
eighth years that you really even understand what's going on and how what you
do in the Nebraska State Capitol impact everyday people. You just can't
understand because you don't have enough tenure. And now, we give you the boot
after eight years, just when you're getting good at your job. Imagine like, you
know, you have a professional career that takes a lot of time. You've been an
engineer for a long time. How long did it take you until you were like,
actually pretty good at your job? It took you years. It took you years. It took
you years, and you still make mistakes all the time, right? Like this is the
reality of people. I'm an expert on a sliver of a sliver of one sliver of
technology. You know what I mean? Like my expertise, like what I think I'm
really good at is such a small, tiny, microscopic thing, which thankfully a lot
of businesses find very valuable, and so they pay me and I can pay my mortgage.
But to think that a state senator can be an expert across the broad topics that
they're debating, it's just amazing to me. Well, I think, yeah, the committee
focus, hopefully. And the thing is, we lost all that expertise when we enacted
term limits. That's how you get expertise. You have to be there long enough to
develop it, and then you have to be there long enough to use your expertise.
And so now the only people who have expertise are people outside of the
legislature, and the actual institution of the legislature is full of people
who don't know what they're doing. They don't understand how these policies
work. They don't understand how different government agencies work together.
Every single two years, about 25% of them are new, which means every four
years, you're working with about half of your senators are in their first term
of service. Given the way that we fund government, $12,000 a year, how is it
that you could possibly do that job unless what you're doing is finding the
money that you're going to survive on to buy groceries with, and becoming a
professional politician whose job, apparently, is to gather the money to be
able to stay in office? I also don't want people that have been sitting there
for decades because they've learned how to play the game, and the game is just,
okay, well, hey, the NRA will kick me $12,000 for this decision or whatever.
That's an opposite that I also don't want. I understand what you're saying, but
I also don't trust politicians to sit there for decades. We can fix that money
problem if we want to. We can say the limits for how much money people can
spend on a certain race. We can say who can donate money and who can't and how
much. We just choose not to. The fact that these elections and that the
incentives are so awful, that's a problem we can fix. We don't want to fix it,
but that is a problem we can fix, and we could still retain the expertise of
senators. Obviously, I want Mitch McConnell to go away. I would love him to be
termed out and to go away forever. Of course, I would. I don't see the federal
government's even more nasty and thorny than the state government. I don't want
people turning over in those seats every 10 years. I want people who are
experts on policy making decisions about policy. I want expertise in the room.
I think it's a little more complicated than the term limits are the solution.
No, I'm not. Actually, term limits are the problem in Nebraska state
legislature. What I think I'm saying is we need to fund our full-time
politicians differently so that they're not spending 90% of their time chasing
the money to survive and stay in the job. I think that's what I'm saying. I
don't know that I have an opinion about term limits one way or the other, but
it seems to me that before there were term limits, I mean, if you have to look
pragmatically at what's actually happened in our state, we have a very special
form of government. It's super unusual. Really before Pete Ricketts started
dumping money into state races, this wasn't really done for most of the races.
Omaha would have really competitive races from time to time. Lincoln would have
some competitive races. The rest of the state was not quite like that. They
generally moved at the slowest pace possible. They almost always were able to
find consensus in the way through. Many of their bills, if not most of their
bills, passed with 49 to 0 once it got to the end because they worked so hard
finding solutions forward because they've been working together 10, 15, 20
years. You couldn't just blow someone up because they're going to be around
next year and the next year. They were really independent. Are they
independently wealthy? All of them? Is that how they can get paid $12,000 a
year to do the job? I think a lot of, I think it was just definitely there's an
equity issue there, right? There's an equity issue there, but what I'm saying
is we definitely should pay them more. I don't disagree with that at all. But
what I'm saying is we have destroyed the collegiality of our legislature. We
have destroyed the expertise of our legislature. We let Pete Ricketts do it. We
have a state that has classically like purple state policies. They're not super
blue. They're not super red. We kind of land right in the middle where people
carefully, thoughtfully were like, you know what we should do? We have all
these crumbling bridges. We should do a tax so we can afford to fix the
bridges. And when Pete Ricketts became the governor, he vetoed a bill just like
that and they overrode his veto and they were like, dude, okay, you just got
here and maybe you don't understand, but like we are going to fix the bridges
around the state. We are actually going to do that. We're going to fix these
rural roads. Like come on now. Now we don't have that kind of legislature
anymore because now it's like no tax increases. Yes, tax increases. That's a
ridiculous binary. The binary, like the question is what are the problems that
we need government to solve? And they're the only institution that can really
solve them like bridges and roads. And how do they solve them? Let's argue
about that and come up with the right solution and then do it. Let's partner
with the roads department. Let's partner with whatever institutions, who are
the construction companies that actually can do the work? How do we figure all
this out and make sure that when we figure out the funding mechanism, this all
works together? That's their job and they're not doing it. And they're too busy
passing like preemption of guns, right? They're too busy trying to get rid of
abortion and they have lost sight of their actual job as the governance
mechanism of the state. I've only been paying attention for a couple of years,
so I have no pre-Ricketts knowledge of Nebraska at all, so I apologize that I
can't commiserate with you on that issue. No, you're fine. I will just say what
they used to do is you couldn't count on party. There was no evenly divide
where we're like, okay, well it's always 16 to 33 or whatever. It was like a
mess of you really had to lobby them because they voted independently and you
really had to convince them that your position made sense to them and you could
do it because they didn't take their orders from political parties. They voted
how they wanted to and some always voted, you know, kind of Republican, some
kind of always voted Democrat. And then there was this huge bunch in the
middle, which represent really most of us. We're just like, well, I'm kind of
here on this, I'm kind of there on that, and I guess it depends on how you
structure on where I'd be on that. And that's how they used to function and
it's just gone. It's just raw. It's just a raw power grab by the Republican
Party. They got the majority and they're going to pass anything they want no
matter the cost. It's just the rawest form of authoritarian power is what we're
seeing in the state government. With very vocal voices fighting that. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, this conversation was awesome. Well, I'm glad you liked it. I
appreciate you backing me out because I tried to dive very deeply into my very
specific questions about Senator Wayne without all the background, you know,
that you gave. I do not have the history in my head about how Nebraska used to
work versus how it works today. I'm just trying to get engaged for the very
first time and feeling frustrated that I don't understand what my rep is doing.
Because if I'm a citizen, I vote for my rep, but I don't understand what my rep
is doing. And there's no way for me to figure out what my rep is doing except,
you know, after the fact. Like I can see everything he did, but I can't see
what he's going to do. I can't hear what he's thinking, you know, and maybe he
has very good reasons for doing some of the things that he did and I just don't
know them, you know, and I can't figure out how to be an effective democratic
citizen of our fine state here. So I help you. Well, I appreciate you trying to
piece some of that together for me, this historical context and your far more
educated background on a lot of these issues. I appreciate you spending the
time. Thanks so much. Thanks for having me. I deeply love talking about all of
these things. Oh, okay. Well, in that case, I have more stupid questions for
you for next time. I've got to get to an 11 o'clock meeting here, I think
shortly. So thank you so much for your time on this one and you can have the
recording if you want it. And I really love seeing Red in Nebraska's podcast
feed. That's great. I'm learning a ton from, you know, two plus years ago in
your back feed there. You've got like 70 episodes on that. I lost you. Oh no.
We lost Melody. Oh, she's back. Hey there. Hello. Hi. Sorry. I just wanted to
thank you for the Seeing Red Nebraska podcast. That's an amazing back catalog
that I'm diving through, trying to understand a lot of that stuff. So I
appreciate you guys recording those and putting them on the internet. You're
welcome. It was a labor of love. Is that possibly going to reappear at some
point in the future? Has that ship sailed? Oh, did I lose you again? Oh, I lost
you again. If you have any thoughts or feedback for us, you can leave a
voicemail for the show at 1-402-577-0117. Thanks.

