---
layout: post
title:  "43 Mass Shootings vs. Individual Rights w/ Chris Hoover"
date: 2023-10-14 18:20:34 -0600
categories: 
duration: 1:01:20
length: 25035089
link: "https://s3.amazonaws.com/jayflaunts.jays.net/043.mp3"
excerpt_separator: Transcript
---

Sick of listening to Chris and Jay talk about guns yet? No? Great!
Here's another swing at it. Chris and Jay were going back and forth
via text, Jay drug Chris back onto the podcast to try to talk through
their differences.

Too long won't listen: Jay thinks the level of societal gun violence should
drive gun policies, including removing millions of guns from society.
Chris thinks he has an individual right to his guns, irrespective of societal
mayhem (or not).

<a href="{{site.storage_url}}/043.mp3" target="_blank">043.mp3</a> (1h 1m 25MB)

If you'd like to call into the show, you can leave a voicemail at +1-402-577-0117.
Consider [giving us $1 a month on Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/jayflaunts)
so we can waste your money instead of our own. :)

* 0m: Musical intro by [Skytrekg](http://twitch.tv/skytrekg)! Click to follow him on Twitch! An amazing traditional (oil, guache, etc) artist, guitarist, and singer.
* 33m: [Ted Cruz’s claim that sexual assaults rate ‘went up significantly’ after Australian gun control laws](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/fact-checker/wp/2016/01/25/ted-cruzs-claim-that-sexual-assaults-rate-went-up-significantly-after-australian-gun-control-laws/)
* 48m: Sam Harris: Making Sense podcast episode [#335 — A Postmortem on My Response to Covid](https://www.samharris.org/podcasts/making-sense-episodes/335-a-postmortem-on-my-response-to-covid) at 47m, Sam gives his airplane analogy, which he says he's used many times in many contexts.

Transcript (via [OpenAI Whisper](https://platform.openai.com/docs/tutorials/meeting-minutes)):

We can talk about anything you want, It's JFluance's Ignorance. Welcome to
JFluance's Ignorance, episode 43. If you have any thoughts or feedback for us,
you can leave us a voicemail for the show at 1-402-577-0117. Thank you.
Alright, we got it. Welcome back to JFluance's Ignorance. Are you familiar with
the format? Did you hear the gunshots behind Brian's house? No, we were. Oh,
yeah, you were. Yeah. Yeah, you were gone. Is that what he said? Brian said,
what the hell was that? Oh, I wonder what that was. Yeah, I don't know. I
thought maybe it was 50 cal. I, because I think we tried to figure this out via
text and Discord and it's not working. So I want to see if I can do it in
person if it actually works to do it in person or not. So I have a hypothesis
that your stance on gun rights is entirely independent on, independent of what
violence may or may not be happening in society. That there's no level of, oh
my God, the streets are, you know, crazy and everyone's shooting everybody
every day or there hasn't been a gunshot fired in Omaha in 50 years, right?
That on either end of that insanity spectrum, that that's irrelevant to you,
that your guns are in your safe, they're not hurting anybody and therefore the
level of violence in society doesn't matter. Is that fair or is that not fair?
This is what I'm trying to understand. I'd say that's fair. Okay, so I think
where we differ there is that my take on it is that guns like other things, if
we have a proven track record that they're hurting society broadly, more than
they're helping society broadly, then we have to figure out what to do about
trying to solve that problem. So if it's smoking and, you know, smoking is
hurting people's health across the board, then we should do something about
that. And if it's guns and people are getting killed, we should do something
about that because it seems unfair to me that if I'm trying to live a gun-free
lifestyle and guns are hurting me, like if guns are everywhere in my
neighborhood and everybody's getting shot all the time, then one way to try to
fix that is to try to get rid of all the guns in the neighborhood and that
that's just better for the neighborhood overall. Does that perspective make
sense? So like if, so when I look at 307 million Americans or 280 or whatever
it is, 380? When I look at 380 million Americans, if the gun violence was below
a certain threshold for me, then everybody can have guns and that's fine. And
if it's above a certain threshold for me, society writ large is better off
without them. There's no ceiling above that where you'd say, all right, people
that are good need guns to defend themselves, where you'd basically give it
back to them. Like, oh my God, shit's out of control. We can't get the cops to
help these innocent people that are dying. We need to let these innocent people
have guns back so they can defend themselves. I think your microphone's getting
blocked by your sweatshirt. I want you to be heard well. Uh-oh, lost the
magnet. I think what you're asking is, if there is gun violence in my
neighborhood, don't I have a right to defend myself with a gun? Right? That's
the question? Yeah, and I'm supportive of that. I think that if I've been
robbed, like, if I had been robbed or had someone shoot at me, then I
personally would feel like, oh, okay, well, I need the option to use a gun to
defend myself because that's the only thing that's going to be effective. So I
think that if you're being stalked, if you've had your life threatened, that
you should totally have access, if you want it, to defend yourself with
firearms. I think that's a good thing. I think we could have a legal system
where people who have a credible threat can get access to them without a
general, you know, the entire society is awash in firearms. And I think right
now, Americans just have a general society that's awash in firearms. So who
determines what's a credible threat in your ideal system? Yeah, I think judges
would have to decide. So if you disarm society, like in the UK or in Australia,
where I can still have hunting long guns, but I have pistols, but then I'm
running for public office and I've got people threatening my life, or I'm a
Muslim and I have people threatening my life, or you're my friend who posted a
bunch of stuff making fun of flat earthers and he had a guy threatening his
life to the point where he had to go to the sheriff and be like, okay, this is
crazy. I'm getting death threats, you know, via email and phone calls and
stuff. He's actually stalking my family, you know, then the sheriff and judges
or whatever could say, oh, okay. Well, yeah, you can have a gun if you need a
gun. That's what I'm thinking. Yeah. So what if they have a legitimate threat
and the judges deny him the opportunity to defend themselves? So I can imagine
a case where I'm in fear of my life and then the judge denies me access or the
sheriff denies me access or something and I go get a gun anyway. And now I'm
breaking the law by having a gun for self-defense. I can imagine that scenario.
Yeah. And do you think they'd be justified in that particular case to actually
have one even though it was against the law? I think it's the right thing to
do, but I think... So there's some pretty severe, even in like maybe liberal
cities, you know, today that have a lot of anti-gun laws. Like if you get
caught without like a license or basically this permission that you're talking
about, there could be some pretty severe penalties like five years in prison,
10 years in prison for just like the first offense. So are you saying that
you're kind of okay with doing that to innocent people that really just want to
defend themselves? They have no intent to use it for bad. The only crime is
physically having a firearm and that's it. Nothing more than that. And they
have no evidence that they want to do anything more than that. They haven't
done anything more than that. And you'd be okay with society saying, we made
this law and we voted on it and everybody that has one of these should go to
jail for five years, no matter what your situation is. Yeah, so say I'd been
raped and I decided that a firearm was the best way to defend myself against
further assaults. And under my system, the sheriff or a judge or whatever has
to agree with that because generally speaking, people don't have guns. They
just don't exist in society. So they deny me. So I get an illegal gun. And then
what is the penalty because I'm caught with an illegal firearm? Yeah, that's an
excellent question. I think like in the UK, you simply can't get them unless
you know criminals who have them because criminals often have them. You know
what I mean? And I'm not talking about, oh, yes, technically I'm a criminal
because I have a gun, people. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about
like literally, you know, people who are stealing cars and robbing people and,
you know, robbing shops and assaulting people and they have guns, right? And my
understanding is, I mean, what I've been told, is that in the UK, guns exist.
You know who have them like pistols. You know who have them. It's the guys that
are running racketeering operations or, you know, enforcement operations,
protection schemes like the mob or whatever. You know, so they're out stealing
cars and while they're stealing cars, they're not, they decided they're not
going to go to jail. You know, they're going to shoot at the cops if the cops
catch them doing it and they've got guns because they rob shops, they rob other
people, they assault people, you know, and they're the ones with the guns. Like
literally, yeah. I know the argument in the US is, oh, well, you know, if you
criminalize guns, then only the criminals have, you know, you're making
criminals out of people who aren't trying to do anything. I get it. But what
I'm saying is, when the society writ large is de-armed in terms of there's just
not millions of guns around all the time, then yes, they still exist and it's
the criminal elements that have them, not because they're, the point I'm trying
to make is, it's not because they're now criminals because they have the gun.
I'm talking about, no, these are actually the bad people that are doing the bad
shit that are, you know, on their way back to jail again or not or swore they'd
never be taken alive again or whatever. And they've got the guns and the people
know that, right? The people who live there know that. They know, they probably
don't know them well, but they know, oh, okay, yeah, you know. The same guys
that are selling the illegal drugs also have guns and you can probably buy an
illegal gun off them and if you get caught with it, you're in, you know, big
trouble in the UK, you know, because generally speaking, citizens don't have,
law-abiding citizens don't have guns, which means, you know, their mass
shooting rate is almost zero and their, when violent crime happens, it doesn't
happen with guns and the death rate's a lot lower is my understanding. And that
could be attributed to other things as well, but, so, so I think, I think for
me, if you can just flip a switch and in, I know you can't, but in the
hypothetical scenario where you could de-arm America like they de-armed
Australia and 40,000 fewer young people die every year due to firearm
incidents, that that's just a healthier society to live in. Well, the 40,000
number I think that you're getting is, you know, half of those are suicides.
The majority of those are probably gang violence and really kind of, really
atrocious parts of the country that are probably fairly dangerous to live in
like Detroit, various parts of St. Louis and Tennessee and things like that.
And if they didn't have guns, wouldn't the gang violence be less bad as far as
how fatal it is? I guess, theoretically, if you could snap your fingers and
have them all go away, I would agree. Right. So the process of making them all
go away, you know, starts with, yeah, you've got to, I mean, maybe people will
turn them in, maybe they won't, right? Like I'd probably just turn in my guns
except for the one that I didn't cop to and I hid somewhere and hopefully I
don't get caught with it or whatever for emergencies, you know, for deep cover
emergencies where I still own a gun because... So back to the original question
though, would you be okay with sending that person that has a legitimate reason
to defend themselves but they were denied that, they'd get it anyways? And
let's say they were, the incident happens where they didn't even shoot anybody
to kill and kill them with the gun that they got but maybe the other person,
maybe they just drew it, right? And scared that person off and that person was
like, I'm not going to mess with this person anymore because they have a gun.
But as they were walking home that day after this event occurred, they just get
stopped or someone sees them with it just by accident. The person gets thrown
in jail for five years. Are you okay with doing that to an innocent person? I
don't know that having a gun needs to be five years in jail. Like what would it
be? What would be the reasonable... So what if having an illegal firearm was a
month in jail... You'd be okay with that? ...for the first offense? Maybe
that's what I'd be okay with. But you'd still be okay with a month in jail for
doing nothing wrong? In my mind, there's a balance to be struck between having
millions of guns on the street and all the gun violence that we have as
Americans and then all the mass shootouts of guns or a society where there's
99% fewer guns everywhere. So to get to my goal, which is less gun death, no
mass shootings, kids don't have to be in school learning active shooter shit
because that almost never happens. It's still going to happen, but it's going
to be a hundred times... I mean, we have a mass shooting incident every day in
this country. And a lot of those are gang-related just due to the specifics of
how they define it. Yeah, so some of them aren't even out there because they do
get stopped and those things aren't reported either. Yeah. The fatality of
assault with guns is just insane. And guns are insanely good tools of what
they're designed to do, which is kill people, right? They are optimized for...
Defend people is technically what I would say they're designed for. Sure. How
do you defend yourself? By killing the bad guy, right? Or, you know, killing a
bear, you know? Do you see what I'm saying? I'm all for Alaskans having guns.
That's fine. You have to defend yourself from polar bears and shit. Yeah. I get
it. I'm not saying there aren't places in the country where guns... I'm not
talking about no guns. I'm talking about millions fewer guns... And even what
I'm saying... ...and it being a healthier society. So, yes, to get back to
before we get too far afield from it, you asked me, I'm putting that woman in
jail for a month. For defending herself from getting raped. Correct. Yeah.
That's kind of fucked up, don't you think? So... So, societally speaking, yeah,
it's fucked up in that one circumstance. But if the choices are 20,000 people
die or... You know, and I could just be wrong because it could just be that
roving gangs of... What's it called? Human traffickers? Are just swooping in
and grabbing everybody like crazy because they know they don't have guns.
Right? I just don't think that's reality. I think the reality is that we have
such a level of gun violence in this country because guns are fucking
everywhere. They're just everywhere. And if they weren't everywhere, the
country would be better off. So, how do you get to a place where they're not
everywhere? And the side effect that is fucked up, you're right, is that in the
instance that we're talking about, yeah, she spends a month in prison. Or jail,
sorry, not prison. But she spends a month in jail for having, for breaking the
laws around a system that failed her. It failed to protect her in the first
place. And then it prosecuted her for having what you call a tool that was
deemed illegal by the process that was in place at the time. You know what I
would actually think is more just in that case? What's that? So since she
legitimately needed it, the judge denied it to her, then she actually ended up
using it for that purpose. I think the judge that denied her that right to do
it legally shouldn't spend that time in jail. Well, the judge's job is to
enforce the law, right? So you should put the politicians that passed the law
in jail, not the judge that... What about the people that voted for the law?
Yeah, I don't think anyone should vote. I think it should be what I say. I'm
pro-authoritarian and I'm the king. So, and here's the thing, and this is why I
can't remember what we were talking about. I think it was actually maybe even
in this chain on Discord where I said, I don't understand why anti-gun people
focus so much on the guns, right? Why is it the guns in this case that's what's
causing the issue? You know, like why is it... Because if someone's an
aggressive asshole, I'd prefer they came at me with a knife or a baseball bat.
Or a car. Or a car. But they prefer all those things. But if they did, why
would it not be the baseball bat or the car's fault? Or why is it that... Why
do you hate baseball so much? I know, I don't. I wouldn't blame the baseball or
the guns. That's the thing. I feel like I'm the only one that's kind of being
consistent in that regard. Not I, but the... So, and this is what I'm saying
too. Yeah, the difference to me is that there's...

I think stopping, well, I guess you could kill me a bunch of different ways.
Let's see. What my fear is, if everybody's got a gun, right, then I could just
be shopping or walking the dogs or whatever. And a neighbor that has decided he
hates me, could just shoot me, right? Whereas, if he didn't have access to a
gun, he'd have to like, you know, dent his car to kill me. On the street. Yeah.
Free, free. So, and here's the thing. And he's not going to kill 50 people in a
shopping mall. There's this one thing that I personally don't ever feel like I
have a right to do. I feel like I don't have a right as a third party to tell
people the decisions that they should make. And case in point, I think we've
talked about this before. These dogs were sleeping until you showed up and now
they're making all the noise. They're like joining the company. Every time we
try to talk, I swear to God, the dogs like want to be involved. I'm sorry. I
cut you off twice now. I apologize. I'm going to shut up. I apologize. It's
funny because I think Chewie's like looking at me. So every time I take a
breath to start talking, he's like, I need to, I need to do this again. I think
that's what's going on. But so and like I said, I think I might have mentioned
it. Oh, thank you very much. I really appreciate it. Can I have it? Can I have
it? Oh, thank you. What a good boy, Chewie. You let me have it. Do you have
anything quiet you can chew on? No, you don't. I bet you do somewhere. I could
give him chew snacks, but then they then we have the whole two dog chew snack
situation where he's always trying to take dude's chew snack. So so that's kind
of your perspective, right? Somebody would need a gun to do this. Right. What
where I think we kind of mess up as a society with gun control ideas is that
it's usually a lot of people that live in a nice neighborhood that or, you
know, that how tall are you, like six foot three or something like that? Yeah,
you're you're probably generally speaking, not walking down the street worried
that somebody is going to come and kill you with their fists on the street.
Right. Correct. So case in point. So my wife, her mother and her sister and her
daughter. I could I could beat the fuck out of them with my bare fists if I had
the fucking flu and they were all just standing there. Right. It's not fair to
me as a person like that to say to them, I'm not going to I'm going to prohibit
you from having these tools to defend yourself, to equalize yourself against
other people. And I'm not going to criminalize you for doing that. And I'm not
going to throw you in jail for doing that. And to me, they are not the problem.
I am not the problem. And I think this is how gun owners generally look at
this. Right. The way that I do is that their guns are not causing any of these
issues that are a part of society today. And therefore, taking them away from
them is not helping the issue. Like it's to them, it's to me and to them, it's
not a numbers game and it's not even about guns themselves. It's about the
right to defend yourself. No, and I'm all for women that want to bear arms.
That's great. Minorities want to bear arms. That's great. I think because I'm
6'4 and I look like maybe I could fight somebody, I've never been in a fight in
my life, so I'd probably get my ass kicked no matter who it was. But, you know,
I've taken a few classes in Krav Maga and stuff, you know, and I'm just a
physically big dude. So I'm intimidating when I come into a room, not like a
real... No, I get it. And if someone's scared of me and I've threatened them,
absolutely they should have the tool to minimize my... Because I'm an
aggressive asshole, if they want, you know, to train with it. And I think, you
know, anyone who's going to have a firearm should be very comfortable using it,
in my opinion. But if they want to train with it, they absolutely should. You
know, I think smaller people and women, because, yeah, I'm a humongous guy,
right? So if I'm pissed at you in a bar or something, rightly or wrongly, or
I'm drunk or I'm high on something or whatever, absolutely, just the fact that
I'm physically bigger shouldn't give me power over someone who feels
intimidated. And this is a double-edged sword, I get that, just as a
counter-argument to even my own position. I feel like you have the right to
defend yourself, whether it's against other people or animals. I think two
weeks ago, I saw something in the news where this lady, there was like a dog, a
stray dog that was kind of running towards them and she had a firearm and she
pulled the firearm out and ended up shooting her daughter by accident. She shot
her daughter? By accident. Holy fuck. Where was it? In Nebraska? I can't
remember. It was, gosh, it was probably two weeks ago I saw this article. Oh my
God, that's fucking terrible. My point is, is that I'm not trying to say that
people shouldn't be accountable for what they do. I guess what the only thing
is, I'm trying to say is, is that I don't think that personal ownership of a
firearm, there's anything wrong with it. I think that guns do have a beneficial
purpose and blanket taking them away from people does get rid of that
beneficial purpose. And people should be accountable for their own actions. So
what's wrong with my argument saying, hey, everybody can own an airplane,
everybody can fly an airplane. But to do that, you have to be trained and
certified to fly an airplane. Like, is that okay? Oh, yeah, I mean, for sure.
Okay, so why can't we have that for, why can't we have like airline training
for people? Well, because I actually don't think that guns are that
complicated, plain and simple. And I don't know. They could kill me. If you
don't fucking know what you're doing, you're gonna kill me. Yeah, but even if
you are licensed, you could die from those people. You could, but that's the
whole point is... So there is a moment of maybe, maybe a line that's crossed
that I don't really think about enough to say, here's the line, you know, like
the airplanes, you know, cross the line. And, you know, there's a certain
amount of training that's required to get back over the line safety wise. But
at the same time, if I'm just carrying a gun in society, it's not the
equivalent to a pilot flying over a neighborhood. You know, I'm not inherently
causing risk to people simply because I have it on my person, which is what is
being criminalized here, right? Like, how is that not? If you've got a pilot
who doesn't know what the fuck they're doing flying over my house, versus a
person standing in a shopping mall, that doesn't know what the fuck they're
doing, with a weapon, how are those not both the same level of threat to me?
Well, they're just simply not. I mean, I'm kind of surprised that you would
consider them the same. People that are ignorant and defy firearms. There's
several things with this. There's people that are completely dumb and ignorant
that carry them every day anyways, and you don't even know the difference.
Right? They go out the mall, this ignorant person that doesn't know how to use
it. Even cops can even fall into this category. They go to the mall, they never
have to draw it, they never have to use it. They go back home for the day and
they haven't harmed anybody, right? Yeah, the guy could just fly over my house
and not hurt me. It's possible. Right. And that's basically it. The potential
that they're going to hurt me, if they've got a pocketknife versus a gun, is a
thousandfold, right? They get startled, right? They get startled. Somebody has
a heart attack and they crash through the front of the grocery store in their
car, right? Because they had a heart attack and they pinned to the throttle.
Bam. Anyway, so this person pulls a gun and they're like, oh, Jesus Christ.
They pull their gun out and it goes off and I die, right? Yeah. I wouldn't have
died if they had a pocketknife. That's true. Yeah. And that is a scenario
that's bad, right? But I would say the worst scenario that society would allow
is to disarm good people. And now, because they've been disarmed, that's an
asshole with evil intention, no matter what they got, a baseball bat or a
knife, to that one person that they do harm that could have otherwise defended
himself. I think that that's an evil that society perpetuates onto the victim
itself, right? And criminalizing somebody for owning a gun is no different than
criminalizing somebody for just having a bag of weed on them. It's not
something that's harming other people in and of itself. I'm not. Yeah. And
that's it. The argument I'm making is not like, yeah, I think weed should be
legal. I don't think flying a plane over my house should be legal if you don't
have the training to do it. Because that's the risk. The risk is you're going
to crash the plane into my house, or the risk is they're going to be startled
or something and pull their gun out. Or they're going to be like, oh, check
this out, buddy. This is the thing I got. And bam, and I'm dead. Yeah. And to
me, flying a plane is not really a right. Where I do think that defending
yourself is a right. And that's kind of where I draw the line. I envision
speech as a right. Even though speech may also cause harm to other people, we
don't say, hey, you need to go through this certification process so that way
your speech really has less of a chance of hurting people, or we're not going
to monitor your podcast because we want to monitor this so we can just ensure
that you're not harming people. I think that that's kind of the difference that
I'm trying to convey. So there are times when a hand grenade could take out
three guys with guns that are trying to rob somebody. That's a hand grenade. Is
that going to work? I mean, I don't think this hand grenades have a
self-defense purpose. But I mean, if you want to go that route, I don't think
the bazookas do either. But in case in point, one thing that I never understood
why we criminalize, I think I do know why we criminalize them, which is like
the switchblade knives here in Nebraska. And you know what I think it is, is
that it's not that they, it's not because, you know, they need certification to
know how to operate them, or they're at risk of, you know, accidentally cutting
people. It's just that people get scared by them. They think to themselves, oh,
what if, what if, what if, what if, what if they didn't have this option to get
this knife out really fast, and they had to get it out a little bit slower than
the people that they're going to victimize us. You know, it's going to be less,
you know, it's like, oh my god, I'm so scared of this type of knife. Let's,
let's criminalize it. I mean, what, what is the point in doing that to other
people, I guess, is where I draw the line. And I think that, you know, we,
people that generally speaking don't understand guns, or they're, they're just
afraid of people making their own choices. It seems like that's kind of not a
legitimate purpose to say to somebody, no, you can't defend yourself against
this bobcat, even though, or this, this wandering dog. And I do know that
there's consequences to that. But there's also consequences to just blanket
saying to good people, no, you're not allowed to defend yourself without
approval from us. Because I do think that there is benefits to gun ownership.
Benefits that I don't think that we should just blanket say you can't do.
Australia, like you said, I think they did a good job of getting rid of guns,
right? But now it's one of the rape capitals of the world. Okay, editor's note
here. I didn't find any statistics saying that Australian rape rates are
markedly higher than the US, certainly not the highest in the world. I searched
all over, we went back and forth in Discord for a couple days trying to figure
stuff out. He sent me some links. I sent him some links. I did find Ted Cruz
claiming a bunch of ridiculous shit in 2016. And a bunch of journalists like
the Washington Post saying that there's absolutely no factual basis for Ted
Cruz's crazy claims in 2016, etc. So anyway, when we talked about it a couple
days later, he's like, I don't even remember saying that. And I was like, yeah,
it's in the recording. And he said, Oh, well, never mind, then I just, you
know, we can look at the stats. So just ignore that and apologies to our
Australian listeners. If there are any shame on us, write in and tell us you
hate us from Australia. Thank you. I'll add various links to the show notes. So
I mean, and now the all those victims out there have no way to defend
themselves. And if you go to California, where they've kind of like outlawed
guns and all these other things. People at one point tried to turn to using
pepper spray to defend themselves. And then lawmakers are like, well, what if
these people use this pepper spray to to commit crimes? Oh my God, we got to
make it illegal. And now you can't even defend yourself in a lot of places like
San Francisco against violent behavior with pepper spray. Okay, so I have no
idea what the rape statistics are in Australia. But I'm confused because I
thought in your model and your way of thinking, it doesn't matter what the
level of violence is in a society about whether or not you have the right to a
specific tool for self protection. But the rape statistics say they are insane
in Australia, I have no idea. If they are insane, right, and you think these
women should have guns, if they choose to, to protect themselves from rape, I'm
confused because there you're making a hey, society is worse off because they
don't have access to guns argument. Society is worse off because we do have
access to guns. And you're saying that's irrelevant. But in Australia, because
of the rapes, it is relevant. And I'm confused. I'm looking at it more like an
individual basis, though, what I'm trying to say is, what rights do people have
as an individual. And I'm not trying to say that a person has a right to a gun.
That's kind of like, not my focus. I'm not trying to be obsessed about guns,
what I'm trying to say that people have a right to do is to defend themselves.
And they have a right to the best tools available to defend themselves. And if
I if I missing my left arm, for example, and I need a gun with a brace on it,
you know, for my right hand to operate it effectively, I have a right to do
that. And things like the NFA would say, well, you can't do that. That's, you
know, two years in prison, I just don't think and that's what I'm trying to say
is, it's not necessarily about guns, it's people have a right to defend
themselves. Okay, so say I have a, I've invented a thing, where the best tool
to defend myself is this thing on my wrist, and I press the button, and
everybody within 100 feet of me drops the ground. But I'm wearing it, so
somehow I'm not affected. Is that okay? Because that'd be a better tool to
defend yourself with, right? You're going to incapacitate everybody in 100
feet. You have the right to do that, if you feel threatened? Oh, no, of course
not. I mean, you can't indiscriminately kill people. I mean, that's what I'm
against. What if they just went to sleep? What if they just went, dropped? Oh,
that's it? They just went to sleep? Oh, that'd be a great tool. What would be
wrong with that? Well, you're being attacked by one person and you disabled 50
people, maybe that's not great. And there's no harm to them otherwise? But
regardless of if they're trying to help you or hurt you or whatever, bam, 50
people, boom, hit the ground. Well, for starters, I love this tool. Do you have
a right to that? I think that we should develop this tool because I definitely
think that that would be a safe way to actually deal with a piece of shit.
Right? I mean, so what? You put 199 people and just get to take a nap on the
mall floor to stop this guy that wants to kill 20 people? Fuck yeah, I'd take
that 100 times a day. Put me to sleep to get this other guy to sleep. Whatever.
I think that's a great tool. That's legitimate self-defense. But if it killed
everybody, that would not be legitimate self-defense. No, you don't get to drop
a nuclear bomb, in my opinion, and kill everything around you. There's nothing
that says you have a right to not be scared and therefore you can just do
whatever you want to to resolve being scared. I don't think that we have a
right for that. You have a very focused... You have the right to the best
discriminant tool for self-defense available, which is firearms. Yeah, and it
doesn't even have to be lethal. I mean, I think that you should have a right to
things like pepper spray. So yeah, and that's one reason why I say, generally
speaking, I don't understand why we focus on the guns. Why not just focus on
the behavior? If we have gang violence out there and they're using guns, why
not just put the gang people in prison? Why not get those individuals with the
bad behavior out of society? Why do we think that removing their tools is going
to just make them not use other tools? And granted, I think you're right. Maybe
they're less lethal tools. Yeah, they're less lethal tools. That's my point.
But I mean, I don't want my hands to be cut off with a machete or my... I don't
want to be strapped down and have my tongue cut out with a spoon because it's
simply less lethal, right? I think that it's that behavior that needs to be
eliminated, not the tool. Because the tool can be used for good and bad at the
end of the day. So should women that are getting raped, I assume it's mostly
women in Australia, they should have guns if they want them? Oh, fuck yeah.
Kill them motherfuckers all day long. They do not have a right. If you are
going to rape a woman, that woman has every right to force you up to death to
not do that, in my opinion. She has a right to defend herself and say, no, you
can't do this. Oh, you want to keep doing it? Well, I'm going to stop you.

That's the step that I think needs to be available. I'm not trying to say
that's a good thing. I don't think that killing people is a good thing. But
taking the right away from people to defend themselves is not good for society,
in my opinion. And like I said, if you want to take those guns from the
gangbangers, you know, or the people that are causing these problems with all
the deaths, I mean, I'm fine with taking it away from them. You know, throw
them in prison. I'm fine with that. To use due process to be gangbangers.
That's essentially where I'm coming from, I guess. And yeah, like I said, it's
not about guns. It's about self-defense and the ability to do that and the
consequences that come with that. I'm okay with that. Right. I don't think that
currently I have a valid argument to be made that I need to own firearms. So I
think in my system of restricted firearm access, I wouldn't have any. So we
could have a system, or is it Switzerland, where they've got shitloads of guns,
but they're at the gun clubs where you shoot guns. So you go there, you get
your guns, you shoot them as much as you want and you go home. You don't take
them home with you. Well, I thought that they all had their own guns that they
had with them that they were kind of required to have because they get it while
they're doing their military service or something. I think they're all at the
gun clubs, though. They're not armed unless there's an emergency. This is my
understanding. I could be wrong, but that to me seems safer, generally
speaking, than just a vision where everybody's armed to the teeth. But I don't
think that's your vision. I don't think you want there to be millions of
firearms. I think you want the people who want to have them to be able to have
them if there's no reason they can't. They haven't proved themselves to be
assholes that they therefore can't have them, right? Or wait, I can't remember
what you stand on. Firearm regulation in Switzerland allows the acquisition of
semi-automatic and with may-issue permit fully automatic firearms by Swiss
citizens and foreigners with or without permanent residence. Yeah, I wasn't
trying to make a point specifically about Switzerland. I was trying to say in
my version of a safer society where we have a lot less mass shootings and stuff
that one of the consequences of that is that I don't have firearms in my house
or carrying them around at the grocery store, but they can exist at a firearms
club where I go to shoot my firearms and leave them there. That's part of my
vision. But any woman who thinks that needs firearms for defense wants those
and trains on them, I think they should have access to that if they want it and
they haven't done something stupid with it or been violent in the past, right?
So if they've abused the shit out of their husband previously or significant
other or whatever been called for domestic disturbance or they're always
getting drunken disorderly charges or whatever, then no, you can't have a gun.
Own one, period. If I've gotten into a bunch of drunken fights at a bar, I
shouldn't be allowed to have guns. Even if you've never used a gun poorly. And
to be honest, I'd be fair with you, as long as due process is followed to take
that right away. If I've assaulted people on multiple occasions in stupid bar
fights, yeah, I think I've lost my right to have a firearm for 10 years. And
like I said, I'd agree with that as long as it's done, due process is followed.
The way I come from gun ownership is not, it's not about the guns to me. It's
about individual rights and limitations on what the government can and can't do
towards individuals. And I certainly would be against putting anybody in prison
for a month or a day even, or even hours, or even fining somebody for simply
just defending themselves. I just can't, I can't envision that being a just
society in my opinion. As a side note, I'm not trying to change the subject,
but Swiss gun laws are pretty interesting. Swiss gun laws are primarily about
the acquisition of firearms and not ownership. As such, a license is not
required to own a gun by itself, but a shall issue permit is required to
purchase most types of firearms. Bolt action rifles do not require an
acquisition permit and can be acquired with just a background check. A reason
is not required to be issued an acquisition permit for semi-automatic unless
the reason is other than sport shooting, hunting, and collecting, which is kind
of interesting to me. Permits for concealed carrying in public are issued
sparingly. You also have to get a permit to have a weapon laser, which I think
is interesting. Either way, I think Switzerland is one of the safest countries
in the world, generally speaking. The vast majority of firearms-related deaths
in Switzerland are suicides. Generally speaking, I do think that people that
are pro-gun control generally group suicides into gun violence. Generally
speaking, I don't personally, but either way. I think in the first 30 seconds
of this conversation, we clarified what I was trying to clarify via text, which
was I have this feeling of societal responsibility and if there's a, quote, out
of control gun violence problem, end quote, which I think in some parts of this
country we have, that if we can have millions fewer guns in the society, that
we're all better off. I think your take on that is the level of violence in the
society isn't relevant to the decision about whether or not an individual
should have access to the most effective self-defense tools available, that
that right is unassailable, that whatever the best self-discriminant
self-defense tools exist, that individuals should have the right to have those
tools on them whenever, for instance. Generally speaking, I think that we
should only criminalize criminal behavior, and I think that simply owning
something is not criminal. For me to get my society with millions fewer guns,
it becomes criminal. Right, which is what I'm saying I'm kind of against.
Right. I'm saying it's part of the problem of my, it's the structure of my
proposal is that, yeah, I make it criminal to get what I want, which is
millions fewer guns, leading to tens of thousands fewer gun deaths. I don't
know why I couldn't figure that out via text, but apparently I couldn't figure
that out via text, so I'm glad we could figure it out so quickly via voice. I
have a podcast chunk I'd like to play for you, unless you said you had
something else. No. I thought this was really interesting. I know you have a
choice. Okay, so what happens here is I play about a five-minute clip from the
Sam Harris podcast called Making Sense. The clip comes from episode 335 called
A Postmortem in My Response to COVID. At 47 minutes in his podcast, he gives an
airplane analogy, which he says he's used many times in many different
contexts, and I thought it was just a really interesting analogy that he gives
about airplanes and how you have to trust institutional safety nets and all
this kind of stuff. I thought that was a really interesting chunk to play for
Chris, so I played that chunk for Chris. I recommend you go listen to that
episode of the Sam Harris podcast, again, 335. You can jump to minute 47 of
that podcast if you like, but I played that for Chris, and then Chris reacts to
that episode, which you'll hear now. So let's get back to Chris reacting to a
different podcast. I just thought it was a really interesting airplane analogy.
That bit ends with him talking about—and there's people on the Joe Rogan
podcast. There's an engineer on the Joe Rogan podcast who tells everybody the
engine was experimental, that it was never supposed to be part of that specific
airplane, and that there's a huge conspiracy going on where all the airline
manufacturers and Congress and everybody else are all pursuing this web of lies
around the actual technology and how it came—anyway. So this is all in the
context of an hour-long conversation about COVID aftermath, but anyway, I just
thought that airplane analogy was really interesting. Yeah, I mean, I did too.
In fact, I think one of the things that I have a concern about with gun control
is that there's these intellectuals, I guess, that say, we want to be able to
make the choices of when these people or whatever can have certain guns. Yeah,
that's me. Did you just call me an intellectual? Thank you. Yeah, and then we
have certain people that aren't really closely related to airplanes and flights
and the business that say, well, these cheap parts that we're getting from
elsewhere shouldn't be there. But yet, the planes are still safe by people
closer to the issue than them making different choices because they have this
mundane sort of everyday knowledge that it's everyday knowledge to them, but
not to this person making the judgment call. And I think that people as a
whole, as a society, has more knowledge than just a few. But you're an
engineer, right? Like, you know what's safe or not safe in train signals? Yeah.
So I should trust you when I get on the Amtrak, I should trust that you, the
expert, made the signaling safe for my Amtrak, right? Well, yeah. Oh, okay.
Sorry. So what's your point? So I'm trusting experts. I'm an intellectual. You
just called me that. I'm just going to keep using that. Yeah, but I think the
equivalent would be someone seeing something they think is unsafe or hearing
about something that's unsafe, maybe driving down or riding down on an Amtrak
train and see a train that's derailed on the side saying, hey, we shouldn't
allow these derailments. Instead of allowing people that are closer connected
to the issue, knowing the reason for those derailments that we maybe do on
purpose or whatever, it's trying to make judgment calls that they're really not
authorized to make, I guess is where I'm trying to draw the line. Oh, you're
making the same point, right? Aren't you? You and Sam Harris are both saying we
should trust experts, right? Yeah, or everyday people, not experts in general.
Well, I think somebody who's been working on the railroad for 20 years is an
expert. Maybe more related to this is that, let's see, how'd the quote go? And
I can't even remember who said it, but it was something along the lines of an
ignorant person can put their code on better than an intellectual can do it for
them. You know, like everyday average people have mundane knowledge about the
life choices that they're making. And maybe it's not like Neil deGrasse Tyson
knowledge of complicated issues, but it's relevant knowledge to their own life
and they should be able to make those choices in their own life. They should
put their own code on basically. That's what I'm trying to say. They're experts
over their own life, not necessarily experts as a role, but allow people to
make choices with the knowledge that they have sort of thing. Because when you
don't, you just kind of try to manipulate things and treat people like chess
pieces and they aren't really chess pieces, I guess. And that's where I think
guns fit into it. You know, people just need to make their own choices. So it's
not really related to guns specifically, just allowing people to live their
life without fear of being thrown in jail for not really doing anything wrong.
So we're both saying that we should trust experts in their field, right? We're
both saying that? Experts as individuals. What do you mean? Allowing people to
just be experts of their own lives, not necessarily saying, hey, you're an
expert. You need to govern these people. I'm saying that these people have more
mundane knowledge as a collective than any one person or expert placed above
them. If that makes any sense. That's a pretty deep topic, I guess. That's
probably a whole other podcast. I mean, if I get on an Amtrak, I should trust
that you and your profession know how to keep that as safe as it can be given
the realities of safety and budgets and whatever else. But it's safe to get on
that Amtrak or it wouldn't be running. Right. Yeah. I don't know shit. I'm
trusting the experts that run the trains to know that, generally speaking, it's
safe to be on it. Right. And like you said in that podcast, there's a lot of
things that come together with people with relevant knowledge of the issue. And
they may not be these big time like experts, but they could just be the
maintainer that's out there. And you're trusting that he knows how to take
something out of service such that it is safe for the train to go over this
equipment that's out of service. Right. Yeah. And that's kind of like a moot to
him. It's day to day knowledge. He goes to work that day and he does this 10,
15, 20 times. But it's something that's completely ignorant from a regulator
who also may be a professional in his own or expert in his own area. What I'm
trying to say is that everybody has their own expert relevant knowledge to
consequential knowledge, I guess. Like Neil deGrasse Tyson is an expert on
galaxies. And I think a lot of people say, well, he knows a lot. I should give
him trust. If he's anti-gun, I should listen to him. Right. And then there's an
everyday person like me who's not on TV, but feels like in my own life, in my
own choices, I feel like it's important for gun ownership. Nobody would look at
me and listen to this podcast and say, well, this Chris Hoover guy, I'm not
going to listen to him. They're probably just going to be like, well, this Neil
deGrasse Tyson guy, he's a physicist who's really smart. I'm going to give him
the benefit of the doubt. I'm going to listen to him. What I'm trying to say is
the everyday average person like myself needs to be able to make those choices
as opposed to somebody else, a third uninterested party, making those decisions
for him. Relating it back to the gun stuff. Anyways, it's kind of a deep
conversation. That's probably a whole another hour long conversation. That's
generally how I feel about it. So like I said, it's not about guns. It's just
about people making their own choices. Yeah. And I'm very supportive of people
making their own choices when they don't affect me or the people I love. That's
fine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. Right. And I'm worried that people who make
bad choices with guns are a hundred times more efficient at killing me or the
people I love or just random people than they would be with a baseball bat.
Yeah. That's my concern. And so then when I back up and look at you know,
America is a culture and I look at statistics, then I'm like, well, fuck. Yeah.
Clearly we have a bunch of people making a bad bunch of bad choices. Yeah. And
I want to make it, I would prefer to make it harder for those bad choices to be
made. Yeah. And I guess those bad choices, I guess, are the things that are in
question to me. Like there was this one, man, I should follow this, like find
this, but it's gotta be like five, 10 years old, but it's this guy who
basically, he goes and gets a tax stamp for a suppressor. So he can do this
experiment to change like a Fram oil filter into a suppressor to see if it
works. And so like, if he didn't go get this tax stamp before he actually puts
it on a weapon and fires it, which would provide evidence that he basically had
a suppressor without getting a tax permit to do it. Even no matter what he did
with it, like, let's say he just like, I'm literally a scientist. I want to see
if this works, but he didn't get a tax stamp. He screws it on the end. It
works. It muzzles the sound. And then he's like, oh shit, that, that fucking
worked. You know I'm going to show this, you know, to everybody. And didn't
cause anybody any harm. He takes it off, he destroys it. But then the ATF sees
it and they're like, you fucking asshole, you broke the law. You know, you're
putting everybody at risk. And then they go and put them in jail for five years
or whatever the punishment is for having a suppressor. I mean, I think that
that's garbage laws and, and it's an individual being put into jail for no
reason. And, and that's, at the end of the day, that last statement, somebody
being put into jail for no reason is what I'm against, generally speaking. And
some gun laws and offenses fall into that category. I would also put like
marijuana owners or disagreeing with somebody in public or, you know, calling a
trans woman, a male, you know, like all of these things, I would say we
shouldn't be putting people in jail for, and that is a crime in and of itself.
And I don't know if that's a good thing to end on or not, but I think that
that's technically what I'm against is creating criminals, criminals where we
shouldn't be, generally speaking. Yeah, I think I'm more sensitive to the
potential harm to myself or people I care about, or, you know, kids in
elementary school down the street. Yeah, but they aren't being harmed right
now. And we actually have until they are. I mean, I don't even know what the
three things were earlier. Apparently, gun ownership is pretty strong. But, you
know, like, as far as I know, those kids aren't being hurt, or you aren't being
hurt, or I mean, accidents could happen. I'm not saying that that's not a
possibility. But yeah, I mean, we're in a semi rural, we're half rural here. I
assume most people have guns. I assume the majority of households on the street
have guns. And as far as I know, there hasn't been a gun crime there. On the
end of the street, there was a theft. There was a whole incident. They wouldn't
give it to me because I'm not a lawyer. And I'm not one of the victims. But at
the end of our street, there was a big fight over an ATV or something. And then
someone had a gun. And that's all the information I know. When did that happen?
A year and a half ago. Oh, dang. I don't know anything about that. Yeah, I
called the sheriff and everything. And they wouldn't even give me the case
number because you have to be a party involved or their lawyer. I thought you
could do just like freedom and

I probably could. I could probably file a FOIA with the Douglas County Sheriff
to find out what the fuck happened on our street. Interesting. Yeah, I don't
even know that happened. Well, yeah, I didn't know until Stephanie's like, what
the fuck is going on at the end of that? And I'm downtown. I'm like, I don't
know what's going on. I mean, that's interesting. There was a period where I
did see people riding back and forth on an ATV down the street. They were kind
of flying. It was like younger kids flying top gear, like going down the road
and turn around at the end, flying back. I don't know if people got pissed off
about that or something. No, the only reason it turned into a sheriff incident
is because it got violent and there was a gun involved. Yeah, interesting.
That's all I know. So anyway. Okay. Good times. All right. Are we done?
Anything else you want on this possible episode? I mean, I don't have anything
else to say unless you have anything else you want to ask. All right. Thanks,
Chris. Thank you. Bye. If you have any thoughts or feedback for us, you can
leave us a voicemail for the show at 1-402-577-0117. Thank you.


